hey this is presto Walker reminding you
to mind your decisions here's a fun
viral algebra problem that many people
requested I solve a 4b squared plus 1
over B squared is equal to 2 then what
is the value of 8 B cubed plus 1 over B
cubed you're not allowed to use
calculators and you have to solve this
in 90 seconds
I admit I wasn't able to solve it that
quickly pause the video right now if
you'd like to give it a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video to
check your answer or to learn how to
solve this problem
[Music]
so in order to solve this algebra
problem we're going to take a detour
into geometry start with the cube whose
side length is X the volume of the cube
will be X cubed now take a smaller cube
with a side length of Y its volume will
be Y cubed we are now going to derive
the difference of cubes formula what's
the difference in volume of the larger
cube minus the smaller cube one way to
express this volume is X cubed minus y
cubed we're now going to derive another
way to express this volume it will be
the sum of the volume of three
rectangular prisms here's one
rectangular prism it's dimensions are X
X and X minus y so it's volume will be x
squared multiplied by the quantity X
minus y we now solve for the volume of a
different rectangular prism we write its
dimensions and then multiply them
together to get the volume we add that
to the previous volume we have one more
rectangular prism we finally calculate
its volume we've now figured out two
ways of expressing the same volume
notice that each of the terms has a
factor of X minus y we can factor this
out and we end up with the following
formula X cubed minus y cubed is equal
to the quantity X minus y multiplied by
the quantity x squared plus x times y
plus y squared that's the difference of
cubes formula now we can get the sum of
cubes formula with a little bit of a
trick we start out with the difference
of cubes formula and then we let y equal
negative Z we substitute in negative Z
wherever we see the variable Y we then
simplify this formula and we end up with
the sum of cubes formula it'll be the
sum of cubes formula we need to solve
this problem notice that AP cubed plus 1
over b cubed is a sum of cubes we'll let
X equal to B and Z equal 1 over B we now
use our formula and we get the following
product to simplify this
notice that we know that for B squared
plus one over B squared is equal to 2
therefore in the second factor we have
for B squared plus 1 over B squared and
we can substitute it into this then
simplifies to B 2 minus 2 which is equal
to 0 and then 0 times anything is equal
to 0 and that's our answer
AP cubed plus 1 over B cubed is equal to
0 with the sum of cubes formula we can
solve this problem in no time at all
incredible
thanks for watching and for making mind
your decisions one of the best channels
on YouTube
thanks for watching and thanks for your
support
[Music]
you